trusted syncing (#83)
iotaledger/IOTA-2.0-Research-Specifications: 7.1 Snapshot.md

> # 7.1 Pruning and Snapshots

Author: ```suggestion
# 7.1 Pruning and trusted syncing
```

+ all outputs are confirmed spent, then the value message is pruned. 
+ any of the outputs are unspent, i.e. not confirmed spent, the message *shall* be stored, and kept until all outputs are confirmed spent.

## 7.1.3.4 Post pruning

Transactions with unspent outputs at the time of pruning remain in the database. Once all their outputs are confirmed spent, i.e. the flags `confirmedSpent` are `TRUE`, the transaction is deleted.

Those messages that survive the initial pruning process become part of a collection of messages called *pruning collection*. Once a transaction is confirmed spent it is removed from the pruning collection.

> ## 7.1.4 Trusted syncing

Author: Partial snapshots

Author: ```suggestion
## 7.1.4 Partial snapshots
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

In this subsection we define partial snapshots, which create a partial view of the ledger state. This partial view can then be employed to e.g. enable syncing of a node.

```

Since eventually nodes must share the same perception, nodes will reach consensus which confirmed messages are contained within a given epoch. Due to the age restriction of parents, see [4.2.3.1 Age of parents](./4.2%20Timestamps.md/#4.2.3.1%20Age%20of%20parents), no messages can be appended to an epoch once the age of the epoch is larger than `DELTA`. 
Note that for those epochs, whose age is more than `DELTA_PRUNE`, the perception on the confirmed messages in that epoch is the same for all nodes.

Since messages get pruned by timestamp, there is a point in time at which the pruning time is within a given epoch. During this time the epoch collection gets emptied of data messages and confirmed spent transactions. For the purpose of this section we do not require to track epochs, whose age is larger than the pruning time. Thus, as the pruning time moves forward the oldest available epoch collection is updated and increases incrementally. Furthermore, the oldest available epoch collection is not complete for most of the time. 

> ### 7.1.4.2 Syncing process

Author: ```suggestion
### 7.1.4.2 Application: Syncing process
```

> Nodes obtain new messages by recording incoming messages from their neighbors. They then attempt to solidify these messages by requesting missing parent messages.

Author: ```suggestion
Nodes obtain new messages by recording incoming messages from their neighbors. They then attempt to solidify these messages by requesting missing parent messages.
This process, together with the pruning and epoch collections, enables a syncing process.
```

> Nodes may then sync in a trusted manner in the following way:

Author: ```suggestion
A node may sync in a trusted manner in the following way:
```

Those messages that survive the initial pruning process become part of a collection of messages called *pruning collection*. Once a transaction is confirmed spent it is removed from the pruning collection.

## 7.1.4 Trusted syncing

In this subsection we define partial snapshots, which create a partial view of the ledger state. This partial view can then be employed to e.g. enable syncing of a node.

In this section we describe a trusted syncing mechanism.

### 7.1.4.1 Epoch collections

The timestamp tool *Epochs*, defined in [Section 4.2.6 - Epochs](./4.2%20Timestamps.md/#4.2.6%20Epochs), enables to group Messages objectively in groups, which we call epoch collections. 

Since eventually nodes must share the same perception, nodes will reach consensus which confirmed messages are contained within a given epoch. Due to the age restriction of parents, see [4.2.3.1 Age of parents](./4.2%20Timestamps.md/#4.2.3.1%20Age%20of%20parents), no messages can be appended to an epoch once the age of the epoch is larger than `DELTA`. 
Note that for those epochs, whose age is more than `DELTA_PRUNE`, the perception on the confirmed messages in that epoch is the same for all nodes.

> Since messages get pruned by timestamp, there is a point in time at which the pruning time is within a given epoch. During this time the epoch collection gets emptied of data messages and confirmed spent transactions. For the purpose of this section we do not require to track epochs, whose age is larger than the pruning time. Thus, as the pruning time moves forward the oldest available epoch collection is updated and increases incrementally. Furthermore, the oldest available epoch collection is not complete for most of the time. 

Author: ```suggestion
Since messages get pruned by timestamp, there is a point in time at which the pruning time is within a given epoch. During this time the epoch collection gets emptied of data messages and confirmed spent transactions. 
For the purpose of this section we do not require to track epochs, whose age is larger than the pruning time. 
Thus, as the pruning time moves forward the oldest available epoch collection is updated and increases incrementally. Furthermore, the oldest available epoch collection is not complete for most of the time. 

We can combine the pruning collection and one or more of the epoch collections into a partial view of the ledger state, called partial snapshot, where the more new messages are excluded.
```

+ all outputs are confirmed spent, then the value message is pruned. 
+ any of the outputs are unspent, i.e. not confirmed spent, the message *shall* be stored, and kept until all outputs are confirmed spent.

## 7.1.3.4 Post pruning

Transactions with unspent outputs at the time of pruning remain in the database. Once all their outputs are confirmed spent, i.e. the flags `confirmedSpent` are `TRUE`, the transaction is deleted.

Those messages that survive the initial pruning process become part of a collection of messages called *pruning collection*. Once a transaction is confirmed spent it is removed from the pruning collection.

## 7.1.4 Partial snapshots

In this subsection we define partial snapshots, which create a partial view of the ledger state. This partial view can then be employed to e.g. enable syncing of a node.

In this section we describe a trusted syncing mechanism.

### 7.1.4.1 Epoch collections

> The timestamp tool *Epochs*, defined in [Section 4.2.6 - Epochs](./4.2%20Timestamps.md/#4.2.6%20Epochs), enables to group Messages objectively in groups, which we call epoch collections. 

Reviewer: Just to avoid the "groups" repetition 
```suggestion
The timestamp tool *Epochs*, defined in [Section 4.2.6 - Epochs](./4.2%20Timestamps.md/#4.2.6%20Epochs), enables to group Messages objectively in subsets, which we call epoch collections. 
```

> Since eventually nodes must share the same perception, nodes will reach consensus which confirmed messages are contained within a given epoch. Due to the age restriction of parents, see [4.2.3.1 Age of parents](./4.2%20Timestamps.md/#4.2.3.1%20Age%20of%20parents), no messages can be appended to an epoch once the age of the epoch is larger than `DELTA`. 

Reviewer: Just wording suggestions
```suggestion
Since eventually nodes must share the same perception, if a given epoch is old enough, then all nodes will reach consensus about which messages are part of its epoch collection. Due to the age restriction of parents, see [4.2.3.1 Age of parents](./4.2%20Timestamps.md/#4.2.3.1%20Age%20of%20parents), no messages can be appended to an epoch once the age of the epoch is larger than `DELTA`. 
```

Note that for those epochs, whose age is more than `DELTA_PRUNE`, the perception on the confirmed messages in that epoch is the same for all nodes.

Since messages get pruned by timestamp, there is a point in time at which the pruning time is within a given epoch. During this time the epoch collection gets emptied of data messages and confirmed spent transactions. 
For the purpose of this section we do not require to track epochs, whose age is larger than the pruning time. 
Thus, as the pruning time moves forward the oldest available epoch collection is updated and increases incrementally. Furthermore, the oldest available epoch collection is not complete for most of the time. 

We can combine the pruning collection and one or more of the epoch collections into a partial view of the ledger state, called partial snapshot, where the newer messages are excluded.

### 7.1.4.2 Application: Syncing process

> Nodes obtain new messages by recording incoming messages from their neighbors. They then attempt to solidify these messages by requesting missing parent messages.

Reviewer: wording
```suggestion
Nodes obtain new messages from their neighboring nodes through the gossip protocol. They then attempt to solidify each messages that has missing parent messages.
```
